README.md, before:

# IW Assigner

This repository holds the code for assigning people to groups for IntroWeek.

The goal is to create groups that are as diverse as possible, accounting for gender, studyline, and home country.

Depending on what you want to do this is the code file that you need:

| Goal | Needed file |
|---|---|
| Initial assignment of all students to diverse groups | `createGroups.py` |
| Assignment of students that signed up after deadline | `assignRest.py` |
| Generate unique ticket tokens for all students | `tickets/createTicketTokens.py` |

> note that `assignRest.py` will only assign random buddy group numbers but not add them to any existing files that were generaterd by `createGroups.py`, since it is assumed 
> that these files might already have been distributed or sent away etc.

## How to run this
- Install all dependencies (using the package manager of your choice)\
You need: `pandas`, `numpy` and `openpyxl`

> If you have no idea what this means then make sure to follow this for Windows: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-install-pip-on-windows/

- Locate the file that contains all the information about the signed up people (**DO NOT UPLOAD IT HERE**)

- Adjust the parameters in the file `createGroups.py` starting in line 42 until line 78

- Run the script with `python3 createGroups.py`

- The results will be placed in the directory `groups`

## General approach to the group assignment
- Randomly create group distributions for a specified amount of time
while using multiprocessing and therefore making use of the available device performance as much as possible
- Keep track of the randomly created group with the best diversity score
- After the specified amount of time has passed, use a greedy algorithm to make some
random swaps in the group with the best diversity to see if the score can be improved => this will then be the result


## Background for the solution
The problem of creating the most diverse groups is similar to the set packing problem, which is an NP-complete problem (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Set_packing). Therefore, it is safe to assume that there is no efficient algorithm that can achieve the best solution for creating the most diverse groups.

The best approach is to create randomly assigned groups for as long as feasible and then try to improve iteratively on the best found group. Note that the longer the script is allowed to run, the better the diversity score may get. Since we are working with randomness, this means only the probability of getting more diverse groups increases. The script is therefore all about trying to increase this probability while staying within a still feasible time frame. We cannot wait an unreasonably long time for the script to finish, even though this would most likely come pretty close to finding the ideal distribution that has the maximum diversity.

Commit message:

Add: bug notice
Signed-off-by: artur <git-ar.houze@aleeas.com>

README.md, after:

# IW Assigner

> Important Notice (24/08/25): There seems to be an issue with retrieving the original student info in the final step, so **the student number might not be correct in the output excel files!** The other info appears to be fine 

This repository holds the code for assigning people to groups for IntroWeek.

The goal is to create groups that are as diverse as possible, accounting for gender, studyline, and home country.

Depending on what you want to do this is the code file that you need:

| Goal | Needed file |
|---|---|
| Initial assignment of all students to diverse groups | `createGroups.py` |
| Assignment of students that signed up after deadline | `assignRest.py` |
| Generate unique ticket tokens for all students | `tickets/createTicketTokens.py` |

> note that `assignRest.py` will only assign random buddy group numbers but not add them to any existing files that were generaterd by `createGroups.py`, since it is assumed 
> that these files might already have been distributed or sent away etc.

## How to run this
- Install all dependencies (using the package manager of your choice)\
You need: `pandas`, `numpy` and `openpyxl`

> If you have no idea what this means then make sure to follow this for Windows: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-install-pip-on-windows/

- Locate the file that contains all the information about the signed up people (**DO NOT UPLOAD IT HERE**)

- Adjust the parameters in the file `createGroups.py` starting in line 42 until line 78

- Run the script with `python3 createGroups.py`

- The results will be placed in the directory `groups`

## General approach to the group assignment
- Randomly create group distributions for a specified amount of time
while using multiprocessing and therefore making use of the available device performance as much as possible
- Keep track of the randomly created group with the best diversity score
- After the specified amount of time has passed, use a greedy algorithm to make some
random swaps in the group with the best diversity to see if the score can be improved => this will then be the result


## Background for the solution
The problem of creating the most diverse groups is similar to the set packing problem, which is an NP-complete problem (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Set_packing). Therefore, it is safe to assume that there is no efficient algorithm that can achieve the best solution for creating the most diverse groups.

The best approach is to create randomly assigned groups for as long as feasible and then try to improve iteratively on the best found group. Note that the longer the script is allowed to run, the better the diversity score may get. Since we are working with randomness, this means only the probability of getting more diverse groups increases. The script is therefore all about trying to increase this probability while staying within a still feasible time frame. We cannot wait an unreasonably long time for the script to finish, even though this would most likely come pretty close to finding the ideal distribution that has the maximum diversity.
